Ok it has been very clear that most major companies now rely on the use of ATS- Applicant Tracking Systems, How do i know this? well thats what this case study is about.

Case Study:
Applying to Minimum 10 Companies for a similar role in tech, Splitting the studies evenly applying to 5 with and without the use of ATS on similar resume.
How many succesful Interviews did i book with ATS vs Without.

Now here's my accountance of the events:

Found 10 similar tech roles generally Helpdesk to Tech Support roles.
evenly shuffle where i would apply using ATS and without then keep track of the response i get from recruiters.

Also note: ATS scanned resumes gets tailored to match the job descriptions with a higher rate score compared to non scanned resumes.

After reviewing the results i've noticed i had received only one response back from a non tailored resume that was not scanned by the ATS, However that response
came back as generic email that would explain why i was not shortlisted for the position in which case is very considerate of that company to do unlike the others.

Moving along to the ATS tailored resumes, i had received all response back on all 5 submissions that would mentioned i was shortlisted for the position,
However being shortlisted i was given other tasks to complete by the company as a shortlisted candidate to test how well i would fit the role, and was 
succesfully given an interview on 3 submissions. I must add it is of no fault to the ATS that i did receive an interview on all 5 submissions due to companies
having in place other means of tests to complete after being shorlisted, without these i am pretty sure all 5 resumes would've allowed me to reach the interview stage.

In conclusion: using an ATS- Applicant Tracking System can definately boost your chances of moving into the next step of shortlisted candidates,
however companies taking additional steps does not guarantee your resume will be seen by an actual recruiter.

Thanks for reading. looking forward to creating more in detailed projects.

